In the last lecture we added one single line to store our data on our database using firebase firestorm.
Now of course we also want to get that data from that finished exercise collection to output in our
data table.
Now it's actually pretty simple to do that.
Our data table in past trainings is connected to the data returned by get completed or canceled.
Exercise here.
Of course we can dynamically set the date up property here we can update this whenever we fetch new
data from our backend.
So what we can do is we can go back to our training service and then we got exercise changed and exercise
has changed all add a third subject which is finished.
Exercise has changed which also gives us an exercise array but of course we're not talking about the
equatable exercises but about these exercises down there I can there for all the named these finished
exercises.
So whenever DS change I want to admit this event now to ensure that I'm informed about these changes.
I first of all have to set up a subscription using angler fire that listens to changes in my fire's
store on the server.
We actually already have a method get completed or canceled exercises and go to name and fetch complete
the directs were canceled exercises to make it really clear that this is for fetching data from a server.
And then last year I will not return anything but instead I'll use my database collection call here
and reach out to finished exercises so this collection we're storing the data in and then call value
changes.
Now this only gives us an array of the document values without the idea of the document.
But I don't need to add ID here because we only get a read only access here anyways.
I don't need the ID for anything.
So your value changes is what I call and I will now call subscribe on that I'll get an array of exercises
I can add a type in rotation to be really clear about this.
It's going to be an array of exercises which I get your and I want to do something with that array in
this function.
I could replace this finished exercises with it for example that sounds like a good start.
So let's say it does finished exercises equal to exercises but we could even skip this step because
the main thing I want to do is I want to emit finished exercise has changed.
I want to call next year and simply pass the exercises I get back from the server to whoever's interested.
So I can't get rid of this line here.
And that also means I can get rid of the finished exercises array up here.
Not only am adding a value whenever we get new finished exercises from the server and we initiate our
listener here when we call fecche completed or canceled exercises.
Now this listener or this method here is called from past trainings heater and until now I stored the
result as data of my data table.
This will no longer work though because the newly named fecche completed or canceled exercise Meffert
doesn't return the values.
Instead we now simply emit an event whenever devalues change.
So it's this subject I should subscribe to.
So in past trainings I will actually use that subject and create a subscription.
Here in NZ and in it I'll use the training service the finished exercises.
Changed subject and subscribe.
And here I will actually get my exercises.
Arrays of type exercise array which I can now assign as a data source so this data source data is now
simply exercises like this.
Now of course we should also unsubscribe if this component is destroyed.
So XDR undestroyed interface and import it from at angular core.
That's super important to prevent memory leaks and will therefore also add my energy on destroy it.
Lisner or method I should say and I need to store it this subscription in a subscription property.
So import subscription from our x Jay SNL.
Now with that important I can create a new property here.
Prior bad acts changed subscription whichever name you like.
It's of type subscription.
And I will set my subscription which I set up here in NC on in it equal to that newly created property.
So the exchanged subscription and unsubscribe to that or from their subscription in on Destroy like
that.
So now this is cleaned up and we prevent memory leaks and now our data table should update whenever
the data on the server updates.
Lets have a look.
Let's go back to our application and log in.
And let's quickly go to past exercises and there we start with one value which makes sense because we
got one value stored in the collection.
And if I were to delete that value by clicking on the free dots your delete document Yes starts delete.
You will see that in the fitness tracker it actually also was deleted.
Now if I start a new exercise here this one maybe and I stopped that.
And let's complete some Burpy.
So I'll wait for this to finish.
It's almost done now it's done.
If I now go to past exercises we have to exercise again.
Don't be deceived.
We got to exercises.
We just have page Nations set up to only show one per page.
But what changed change does we see both exercises and we can of course still sort and also filter.
So that still works.
The coolest thing is if I now open this and open another browser window next to it let me quickly do
that.
Now I'm still logged in on the left and on the right.
I started a new instance of this app running on the same server and then log in there to see the same
exercise because we shared them across accounts it's not user bound right.
So now if Why go there and start some crunches and I cancel them.
You see them up here on the left so we got a live updating going on here due to our dynamic observable
based subscription Wrangler fire.
And this shows the full power of angle of fire.
We're not done yet though.
We work a lot with the angle of fire story.
But there's more we can explore there and we haven't even touched authentication lets do all that.